earlier this year Lester won a record
10th championship to establish them as
the dominant English side of the
professional era an impressive
achievement for a club that is also
twice been crowned European champions
one console to this success was Jordan
Murphy a playing career that spans 16
years ended that day at Twickenham now a
new chapter beckons when I started
playing a no interest whatsoever in
coaching I think you know probably a
little bit like cap let's see there's a
little bit older you get a little bit
more sort of influence you have when
you're sort of calling the shots and
when you're sort of dealing with the
coaches then you sort of think you know
maybe I could do this the club you know
very loyal II have you know asked me to
stay around and then it's you know big
job for me and that you know I've kind
of got some experience of coaching but
obviously not at a high level as as I'll
be going into so a little bit
nerve-wracking but I'm you know excited
about it and looking forward to
obviously the best part of 13 years with
him I'm pretty glad to back of him right
now but he's just a true one-off player
really and I don't have ever seen
anything quite like his talent and
ability to the ball whether it's kicking
it or catching it or passion or whatever
just not seen anything like it it's so
easy for him it's been it's been the
best seat in the house to watch him play
less was a big club with with a lot of
big names and a lot of good guys I'm
very friendly with some of those guys at
the moment so it's all that potentially
could be a you know a tough thing to do
but you know I'm you know friendly with
them you know I've got to try and get
you know my coaching games across of em
and you know I'm gonna be open-minded
and if you know they want to chat to me
and they you know give me some ideas
then you know I'll be more than happy to
yeah take anything on board life could
have been very different for Murphy had
he pursued his talent for Gaelic
football in his native Ireland but after
joining Leicester is just 19 it wasn't
long before the Dublin are enjoyed
success at both Club and international
level
when I joined the store first you know
sort of took me a year or two to break
in as a regular into the first team I
suppose it wasn't until 99 that we you
know broke in and then at that stage you
know we won four leagues back to back
and we won two Europeans in 2001 and
2002 and it just seemed that that's what
Robbie was about he would surely have
won many more caps but for the
competition from the likes of Gervin
Dempsey and Rob Carney I managed to play
72 times for Ireland on in that I was
competing against Garvin and Rob who
were both fantastic full backs in my you
know in my eyes and you know I didn't
ever really sort of moan about it I just
sort of got on with it and when I didn't
get picked
obviously it's frustrating because you
want to be there playing for your
country and you know it's something that
you're passionate about and you know you
want to be there desperately but you'll
do anything to help this side win this
career was also interrupted by serious
injury you always have that little bit
of stuff that when you break a bone or
you have your shoulder reconstructed or
when you come out of hospital and you're
sitting on your sofa and you're trying
to get your area you know the swelling
down and I think you know the support
staff at Leicester were very very good
to me over the years and the support
staff at Ireland and a.m. you know you
just work towards it and you get through
it you know you eat you learn to walk
again you learn to jog again and you
take it step by step but I suppose
that's the key to getting back here
a step from player to coach isn't an
easy one and relationships will
inevitably have to change a trip to
Bermuda to help grassroots rugby not a
bad way to start though I think there's
a lot to be said about being a good
person and I'm treating people with a
lot of respect you know I think it's
important to do that as a coach it's not
often that great players go on to become
great coaches but I think Georgie's got
such a high understanding of the game
he's got such an appreciation of
different styles of play having played
with with a number of different coaches
both a club and country
he's got quite a quite a broad spectrum
of experience to bring to it and and
also he gets his point across pretty
well apart from the language barrier so
yeah I think I think he's got a bright
future for sure to walk out a Welford
Road and have the crowd just go you know
electric and and you know people don't
crazy it's a huge honor you know I'll
miss that you know I think you know if I
was white if I didn't miss that you'd be
you'd be crazy so yeah it's one of those
things you don't have to kind of live
vicariously through other players now